I was going to tell a science fiction
story about mass blackmail it had a
protagonist a narrative in a beginning
middle and end and a warning about the
future I think was going to start with a
fictional app an app the let you swap
your face into movie scenes so ya take a
clip from a movie emotive it into your
smartphone's camera and it would put you
in the scene as you can't believe no
one's built that yet I was gonna explore
how that technology could be used and
misused and abused and then the news
happened I realized the future had
arrived a lot faster than I thought it
would just so you know I'm not in the
show anything adult rated or ethically
questionable
in this video all the face swapping have
been working on has been entirely
clothed and consensual so when I saw
that story I had to find out is this a
real bit of code has Hollywood grade
face swapping become available to the
world that quickly so I went and found
the software itself it turns out the raw
code for this has been around for a
couple of months I've been developed and
used pretty much exclusively for
creating non-consensual pornography
taking the face of someone who hasn't
consented and putting it on the body of
someone else who hasn't consented last
week someone decided to package up this
complicated bit of code this whole
massive project that required large
amounts of technical skill and knowledge
and turn it into a Windows app that
anyone with a bit of time and a bit of
tech skills could use the system
requirements were a Windows 10 PC a
powerful Nvidia graphics card moderate
tech skills and poor or no sense of
empathy and if you want to find someone
with a fast computer and no empathy you
of course got to read it I found the
software there downloaded it and
realized I wasn't gonna run 2.6
gigabytes of unknown code designed to
create unethical porn on my own computer
so I dug out an old machine wiped it
clean and ran the code and it gave me
just a box
really with unfriendly error messages
and no help files reminds me a lot of
the hack together Windows stuff that I
used to code many many years ago only
mine was for creating steps for dance
dance revelution games so you know a bit
of a different audience then probably
only a slightly different audience
actually but
to make the cold work you have to
assemble images of the source and the
target so I asked my friend Matt Parker
if I could use his videos as an example
he was fine with it so I extracted 500
frames from his YouTube channel and 500
from mine the first thing the software
does is called extraction get all the
faces from those images and put the eyes
nose and mouth in the same place for
each and you might think Tom did you
make a creepy gif out of this and the
answer is yes of course I did too
actually I had slightly more hair then
thank you so did Matt after it had
finished the computer was still kind of
churning away working on something in
the background I was a little bit
worried about what it was doing so I had
a look in the task manager and it turns
out Windows 10 was trying to update so I
turn that off and it's still updated and
rebooted itself twice anyway I got it
training and and as it trains it shows
you a lot of faces that look like some
sort of wall of ham and the right one of
each triple is what it's adjusted the
face into what you're looking for after
10 minutes they will ruff after an hour
they were starting to become
recognizable but then it all slowed down
after 24 hours of worrying fans 'red
nearly overheating graphics card it was
still blurred but after 48 hours I
thought that some of it might be good
enough to try so here's the question
with 48 hours of training on a graphics
card from a couple of years ago
can you convincingly Face Swap Matt
Parker into this video no no no no not
really
not done the other question is can you
convincingly face what the other way
around and the answer is still no so I
was trying to figure out how can I
demonstrate to an audience on YouTube
that the code is a real thing and then
this news article came along I don't
know what the copyright situation is on
what I'm about to show you but to try
and make sure that this counts as
criticism and review that face swap is
perfect
the lighting matches the expression
matches that looks like a Hollywood CGI
team spent an enormous amount of time
and money changing a face instead of one
person taking a couple of days on their
own computer the user in question
said this try explaining that sentence
to someone 20 years ago actually never
mind copyright is done ethically okay
neither of the people involved in that
clip Amy Adams or Nicolas Cage have
consented to it I think it's just about
okay but then everyone draws the moral
line of what's acceptable just slightly
below what they're actually doing maybe
even facebooking people like that isn't
okay making Clips like that is only
going to get easier yes it requires days
of training now but it won't for long
someone's going to come along and
package up an algorithm in a way that
doesn't seem questionable it'll be a fun
app about putting your face in movies
rather than the current horrible use
that's just a question of marketing as
of last week you can no longer trust a
video of someone unless you also trust
its source if you want to think a
certain alleged Donald Trump tape then
all you need is a body double a few days
of compute time and no conscience the
story I was going to tell was about
algorithmic blackmail the idea that
someone could write a script to pull out
selfies from Instagram accounts and
train up an algorithm to create
plausible fake porn as if from a hidden
or hacked webcam and then send out
blackmail threats automatically and even
if only a few people fall for it that
could still be enough to make a decent
income particularly if the sender's in a
developing country with a lower cost of
living all they have to do is cause
emotional trauma to a huge number of
people but they're just people on the
internet right they don't count we're
not ready for this a society is humanity
normally when I tell a story like this I
try to end on an upbeat note the people
in the sci-fi tale that I had to ditch
they they sort of ended up okay in the
end because it's fiction and you can
make sure that happens but this isn't
science fiction anymore I don't have an
upbeat note to end on all I have is a
vague sense of future shock and 500
distorted images of Matt Parker
that would have been a lot easier
without the dogs barking in the
background